docs/upgrade.md, before:

# Upgrading to new major versions

Some of these changes between major application versions may affect the effective configuration that would be applied if you run the application. Therefore to do the upgrade safely please follow this procedure.

## From 3.\* to 4.\*

### Branch Protection Changes

When preventing GitlabForm from un-protecting and then re-protecting the Branch in order to apply configuration changes to the protection rules [#1070](https://github.com/gitlabform/gitlabform/pull/1070), we discovered some functionality that was previously hidden from the user.

Previously if you stopped defining `code_owner_approval_required` or `allow_force_push` in the YAML config, the settings would revert to the default Gitlab settings applied when first protecting the branch, see: [Branch Protection API](https://docs.gitlab.com/api/protected_branches/#protect-repository-branches)

With the changes to perform dynamic updates as required, we follow the GitlabForm convention of **leaving the Gitlab settings as is if the data is no longer defined in configuration**.

Therefore, if you wish to ensure the Protected Branch settings are applied as you intend when running GitlabForm you should define some defaults explicitly:

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
 my-group/*:
   branches:
     main:
       protected: true
       allow_force_push: false
       code_owner_approval_required: true
```

## From 3.\* to 4.*\

Relatively minor breaking-change, we dropped support for Python < 3.12, so if you are running locally using Python rather than Docker, ensure you are using Python > 3.12

## From 2.\* to 3.\*

Steps outline:

1. Update to the latest v2.x.x and **fix all the deprecation warnings the application prints out during run**. The syntax deprecated in v2 has been removed in v3.
2. Stop v2 from running automatically (if you have such automation).
3. In your config:

    * In v3 a bug that caused subgroup config to not inherit its group config has been fixed. If you do have configs for some groups and a config for their subgroups, then your effective configuration may change after the upgrade to v3. If you do not want that, or you are not sure, then please do the following to keep the old behavior: add `inherit: false` entries to all of such subgroups config, under each configuration section:
Example:
```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  some_group/*:
    group_settings:
      project_creation_level: maintainer
      subgroup_creation_level: owner
      visibility: internal
  
  some_group/subgroup/*:
    group_settings:
      # add the line below to keep the old behavior
      inherit: false
      project_creation_level: developer
        
  some_group/subgroup/subsubgroup/*:
    group_settings:
      # add the line below to keep the old behavior
      inherit: false
      visibility: private
```
    * Replace `services:` with `integrations:`,
    * Replace `secret_variables:` with `variables:`,
    * Replace `group_secret_variables:` with `group_variables:`,
    * Replace `config_version: 2` with `config_version: 3`
    * Update `merge_requests:`; `approvals_before_merge:` needs to be defined
      in specific approval rule
 
4. Upgrade the app from v2 to v3.
5. Re-enable v3 to run automatically (if you have such automation).

## From 1.\* to 2.\*

Steps outline:

1. Generate effective configuration that is applied when you run v1 and keep it. Update to >= v1.23.0 first, as we added the feature to output the effective config to file to that version. Add these parameters to your regular ones: `--output-file v1_configuration.yaml`. You may also add `-n` to run it in a noop mode. Save the generated YAML.
2. Stop v1 from running automatically (if you have such automation).
3. Upgrade to v2 and update the configuration syntax. The major syntax changes are:

    * add `config_version: 2`,
    * remove `api_version: 4`,
    * common, group and project configs are now all under a single `projects_and_groups` key,
    * if you have `common_settings` section then move it under a new key `"*"` under `projects_and_groups`,
    * if you have `groups_settings` or `projects_settings` then move their contents to be under all under `projects_and_groups`,
    * for each group config replace `<group name>:` with `<group name>/*:`.
    * leave project configs unchanged.
 
4. Generate effective configuration that is applied when you run v2 using "noop" mode. Add these parameters to your regular ones: `--output-file v2_configuration.yaml --noop --include-archived-projects`. (The last one is needed to have the projects list to process the same as for v1, as v2 by default skips the archived projects.) Save the generated YAML file.
5. Compare the YAML files with effective configuration from v1 to v2 and correct the configuration to get either exactly the same result or acceptable differences.
6. Run v2 without the "noop" mode and review the results. Look for failures and exit code different from 0. Fix found issues.
7. Re-enable v2 to run automatically (if you have such automation).

Commit message:

docs: improved description of breaking change
Co-authored-by: amimas <aver.mimas@gmail.com>

docs/upgrade.md, after:

# Upgrading to new major versions

Some of these changes between major application versions may affect the effective configuration that would be applied if you run the application. Therefore to do the upgrade safely please follow this procedure.

## From 3.\* to 4.\*

### Branch Protection Changes

In GitLabForm v4, branch protection config introduced a bug. GitLabForm would remove and re-add branch protection on every run, because GitLab's API did not support in-place updates. Besides causing audit noise because of constant change, this approach reset all unspecified attributes to GitLab defaults, breaking GitLabForm’s core behavior of [raw parameter passing](reference/index.md#raw-parameters-passing) — where only explicitly configured values are sent, and unspecified ones are left untouched.

This unintended consequence meant:

- A user configuring only some protection attributes (e.g. `push_access_level`) would find others reset to default (e.g. `code_owner_approval_required`) on re-run.
- GitLabForm was no longer idempotent unless all settings were always provided.

This issue is being fixed by following original intended behaviour of GitLabForm. Therefore, if you wish to ensure the Protected Branch settings are applied as you intend when running GitlabForm you should define some defaults explicitly:

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
 my-group/*:
   branches:
     main:
       protected: true
       allow_force_push: false
       code_owner_approval_required: true
```

## From 3.\* to 4.*\

Relatively minor breaking-change, we dropped support for Python < 3.12, so if you are running locally using Python rather than Docker, ensure you are using Python > 3.12

## From 2.\* to 3.\*

Steps outline:

1. Update to the latest v2.x.x and **fix all the deprecation warnings the application prints out during run**. The syntax deprecated in v2 has been removed in v3.
2. Stop v2 from running automatically (if you have such automation).
3. In your config:

    * In v3 a bug that caused subgroup config to not inherit its group config has been fixed. If you do have configs for some groups and a config for their subgroups, then your effective configuration may change after the upgrade to v3. If you do not want that, or you are not sure, then please do the following to keep the old behavior: add `inherit: false` entries to all of such subgroups config, under each configuration section:
Example:
```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  some_group/*:
    group_settings:
      project_creation_level: maintainer
      subgroup_creation_level: owner
      visibility: internal
  
  some_group/subgroup/*:
    group_settings:
      # add the line below to keep the old behavior
      inherit: false
      project_creation_level: developer
        
  some_group/subgroup/subsubgroup/*:
    group_settings:
      # add the line below to keep the old behavior
      inherit: false
      visibility: private
```
    * Replace `services:` with `integrations:`,
    * Replace `secret_variables:` with `variables:`,
    * Replace `group_secret_variables:` with `group_variables:`,
    * Replace `config_version: 2` with `config_version: 3`
    * Update `merge_requests:`; `approvals_before_merge:` needs to be defined
      in specific approval rule
 
4. Upgrade the app from v2 to v3.
5. Re-enable v3 to run automatically (if you have such automation).

## From 1.\* to 2.\*

Steps outline:

1. Generate effective configuration that is applied when you run v1 and keep it. Update to >= v1.23.0 first, as we added the feature to output the effective config to file to that version. Add these parameters to your regular ones: `--output-file v1_configuration.yaml`. You may also add `-n` to run it in a noop mode. Save the generated YAML.
2. Stop v1 from running automatically (if you have such automation).
3. Upgrade to v2 and update the configuration syntax. The major syntax changes are:

    * add `config_version: 2`,
    * remove `api_version: 4`,
    * common, group and project configs are now all under a single `projects_and_groups` key,
    * if you have `common_settings` section then move it under a new key `"*"` under `projects_and_groups`,
    * if you have `groups_settings` or `projects_settings` then move their contents to be under all under `projects_and_groups`,
    * for each group config replace `<group name>:` with `<group name>/*:`.
    * leave project configs unchanged.
 
4. Generate effective configuration that is applied when you run v2 using "noop" mode. Add these parameters to your regular ones: `--output-file v2_configuration.yaml --noop --include-archived-projects`. (The last one is needed to have the projects list to process the same as for v1, as v2 by default skips the archived projects.) Save the generated YAML file.
5. Compare the YAML files with effective configuration from v1 to v2 and correct the configuration to get either exactly the same result or acceptable differences.
6. Run v2 without the "noop" mode and review the results. Look for failures and exit code different from 0. Fix found issues.
7. Re-enable v2 to run automatically (if you have such automation).
