docs/reference/ci_cd_variables.md, before:

# CI/CD variables

Please note that project-level and group-level [CI/CD variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/) are different entities in GitLab!

## Project CI/CD variables

This section purpose is to manage the **project-level** CI/CD variables.


Key names here are just any labels, except if the key name is `enforce` and is set to `true` - then only the variables defined here will remain in the project, all other will be deleted.


The values are like documented at [Project-Level Variables API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/project_level_variables.html#create-variable), **except the id**.

You can make the:

* [protected variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#protected-cicd-variables)
* [masked variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#mask-a-cicd-variable)
* [variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s)](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#limit-the-environment-scope-of-a-cicd-variable)

!!! info

    Variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s) requires GitLab Premium (paid). (This is a GitLab's limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

Example:

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/project_1:
    variables:
      # --- Adding/resetting
      a_friendly_variable_name: # this is just a label
        key: SSH_PRIVATE_KEY_BASE64
        value: "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBSU0EgUFJJVkFURSBLRVktLS0tLQpNSUl (...)"

      # --- Adding/resetting protected variable
      my_protected_variable:
        key: PROTECTED_VAR
        value: "foobar-123-123-123"
        protected: true

      # --- Adding/resetting masked variable
      my_masked_variable:
        key: MASKED_VAR
        value: "foobar-123-123-123"
        masked: true

      # --- Adding/resetting variables per environment
      aws_access_key_id_for_deploying_in_production:
        key: APP_HOST_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
        value: "prod-value-1234"
        protected: true
        masked: true
        environment_scope: production
        filter[environment_scope]: production
      aws_access_key_id_for_deploying_in_staging:
        key: APP_HOST_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
        value: "staging-value-1234"
        protected: true
        masked: true
        environment_scope: staging
        filter[environment_scope]: staging

      # --- Deleting
      # the below name is not used by GitLab, it's just for you
      a_secret_you_want_to_remove:
        key: MY_SECRET
        delete: true

      enforce: true # optional
```

## Group CI/CD variables

This section purpose is to manage the **group-level** CI/CD variables.

Key names here are just any labels, except if the key name is `enforce` and is set to `true` - then only the variables defined here will remain in the group, all other will be deleted.


The values are like documented at [Group-Level Variables API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/group_level_variables.html#create-variable), **except the id**.

Although we do not provide examples like for the project-level variables, all the features like above are also supported:

* protected variables,
* masked variables,
* variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s).

!!! info

    Variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s) requires GitLab Premium (paid). (This is a GitLab's limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

Example:
```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/*:
    group_variables:
      # --- Adding/resetting
      some_secret: # this is just a label
        key: A_NEW_PASSWORD
        value: "ThisIsAVerySecretPassword"
        variable_type: env_var # or file
        protected: false

      # --- Deleting
      old_variable:
        key: PASSWORD
        delete: true

      enforce: true # optional
```

Commit message:

docs: update ci_cd_variables.md to include raw variable example (#1091)
Gitlab's UI uses the term "expanded" when indicating whether "$ will be treated as the start of a reference to another variable" or not.  The API uses the term "raw" instead, which is confusing if you're not familiar with the API.  This adds an example, since the docs weren't clear they definitely supported this option.

docs/reference/ci_cd_variables.md, after:

# CI/CD variables

Please note that project-level and group-level [CI/CD variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/) are different entities in GitLab!

## Project CI/CD variables

This section purpose is to manage the **project-level** CI/CD variables.


Key names here are just any labels, except if the key name is `enforce` and is set to `true` - then only the variables defined here will remain in the project, all other will be deleted.


The values are like documented at [Project-Level Variables API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/project_level_variables.html#create-variable), **except the id**.

You can make the:

* [protected variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#protected-cicd-variables)
* [masked variables](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#mask-a-cicd-variable)
* [variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s)](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/#limit-the-environment-scope-of-a-cicd-variable)

!!! info

    Variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s) requires GitLab Premium (paid). (This is a GitLab's limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

Example:

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/project_1:
    variables:
      # --- Adding/resetting
      a_friendly_variable_name: # this is just a label
        key: SSH_PRIVATE_KEY_BASE64
        value: "LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBSU0EgUFJJVkFURSBLRVktLS0tLQpNSUl (...)"

      # --- Adding/resetting protected variable
      my_protected_variable:
        key: PROTECTED_VAR
        value: "foobar-123-123-123"
        protected: true

      # --- Adding/resetting masked variable
      my_masked_variable:
        key: MASKED_VAR
        value: "foobar-123-123-123"
        masked: true

      # --- Adding/resetting non-expanded variable
      # Gitlab's UI uses the term "expanded" while
      # the API uses "raw".  Variables are not expanded
      # when "raw" is true.
      my_raw_variable:
        key: RAW_VAR
        value: "foobar-123-123-123"
        raw: true

      # --- Adding/resetting variables per environment
      aws_access_key_id_for_deploying_in_production:
        key: APP_HOST_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
        value: "prod-value-1234"
        protected: true
        masked: true
        environment_scope: production
        filter[environment_scope]: production
      aws_access_key_id_for_deploying_in_staging:
        key: APP_HOST_AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
        value: "staging-value-1234"
        protected: true
        masked: true
        environment_scope: staging
        filter[environment_scope]: staging

      # --- Deleting
      # the below name is not used by GitLab, it's just for you
      a_secret_you_want_to_remove:
        key: MY_SECRET
        delete: true

      enforce: true # optional
```

## Group CI/CD variables

This section purpose is to manage the **group-level** CI/CD variables.

Key names here are just any labels, except if the key name is `enforce` and is set to `true` - then only the variables defined here will remain in the group, all other will be deleted.


The values are like documented at [Group-Level Variables API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/group_level_variables.html#create-variable), **except the id**.

Although we do not provide examples like for the project-level variables, all the features like above are also supported:

* protected variables,
* masked variables,
* variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s).

!!! info

    Variables limited to the scope of specific environment(s) requires GitLab Premium (paid). (This is a GitLab's limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

Example:
```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/*:
    group_variables:
      # --- Adding/resetting
      some_secret: # this is just a label
        key: A_NEW_PASSWORD
        value: "ThisIsAVerySecretPassword"
        variable_type: env_var # or file
        protected: false

      # --- Deleting
      old_variable:
        key: PASSWORD
        delete: true

      enforce: true # optional
```
