docs/reference/settings.md, before:

# Settings

## Application Settings

This section purpose it to manage the [Application settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/settings.html).

You can provide any number of the settings from there - if you don't provide a setting then it will be not changed.

Example:

```yaml
application:
  settings:
    asset_proxy_allowlist: ["example.com", "*.example.com", "your-instance.com"]
    require_two_factor_authentication: true
    two_factor_grace_period: 2
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/project_1:
    project_settings:
      default_branch: main
```

## Project Settings

This section purpose is to manage the [project settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/).

The settings should be as documented at GitLab's [Project API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/projects.html#edit-project), **except the id**.

You can provide any number of the settings from there - if you don't provide a setting then it will be not changed.

Note that some keys and values can be very complex here - see the [Container Registry cleanup policies](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/packages/container_registry/reduce_container_registry_storage.html#use-the-cleanup-policy-api) under the `container_expiration_policy_attributes` key in the code below as an example.

!!! note

    Some [Merge Requests](merge_requests.md)-related settings are also set here.

Example:

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/project_1:
    project_settings:
      default_branch: main
      builds_access_level: enabled
      visibility: internal
      only_allow_merge_if_pipeline_succeeds: true
      only_allow_merge_if_all_discussions_are_resolved: true
      container_expiration_policy_attributes:
        cadence: "1month"
        enabled: true
        keep_n: 1
        older_than: "14d"
        name_regex: ""
        name_regex_delete: ".*"
        name_regex_keep: ".*-main"
      # (...)
```

## Group Settings

This section purpose is to manage the [group settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/group/).

The settings should be as documented at GitLab's [Groups API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/groups.html#update-group), **except the id**.

You can provide any number of the settings from there - if you don't provide a setting then it will be not changed.

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/*:
    # configures settings for the 'group-with-spammy-projects' group
    group_settings:
      # keys and values here are as described at https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/groups.html#update-group
      emails_disabled: true
```

Commit message:

docs: Move docs for topics to project_settings

docs/reference/settings.md, after:

# Settings

## Application Settings

This section purpose it to manage the [Application settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/settings.html).

You can provide any number of the settings from there - if you don't provide a setting then it will be not changed.

Example:

```yaml
application:
  settings:
    asset_proxy_allowlist: ["example.com", "*.example.com", "your-instance.com"]
    require_two_factor_authentication: true
    two_factor_grace_period: 2
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/project_1:
    project_settings:
      default_branch: main
```

## Project Settings

This section purpose is to manage the [project settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/).

The settings should be as documented at GitLab's [Project API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/projects.html#edit-project), **except the id**.

You can provide any number of the settings from there - if you don't provide a setting then it will be not changed.

Note that some keys and values can be very complex here - see the [Container Registry cleanup policies](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/packages/container_registry/reduce_container_registry_storage.html#use-the-cleanup-policy-api) under the `container_expiration_policy_attributes` key in the code below as an example.

!!! note

    Some [Merge Requests](merge_requests.md)-related settings are also set here.

Example:

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/project_1:
    project_settings:
      default_branch: main
      builds_access_level: enabled
      visibility: internal
      only_allow_merge_if_pipeline_succeeds: true
      only_allow_merge_if_all_discussions_are_resolved: true
      container_expiration_policy_attributes:
        cadence: "1month"
        enabled: true
        keep_n: 1
        older_than: "14d"
        name_regex: ""
        name_regex_delete: ".*"
        name_regex_keep: ".*-main"
      # (...)
```

### Project Settings - Topics

Using [Project Settings](./settings.md#project-settings) only allows for topics to be overwritten.GitLabForm allows for additional syntax with `keep_existing` and `delete`.

Examples:

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/project_1:
    projects_settings:
      topics:
        keep_existing: true
        - topicA
        - topicB
        - topicC
            delete: true
```


## Group Settings

This section purpose is to manage the [group settings](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/group/).

The settings should be as documented at GitLab's [Groups API docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/groups.html#update-group), **except the id**.

You can provide any number of the settings from there - if you don't provide a setting then it will be not changed.

```yaml
projects_and_groups:
  group_1/*:
    # configures settings for the 'group-with-spammy-projects' group
    group_settings:
      # keys and values here are as described at https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/groups.html#update-group
      emails_disabled: true
```
